index.md, before:

# Portfolio

## Business Consulting Projects
**Coursework completed to answer business questions and build technical solutions for companies**

---
### Database Development and Descriptive Analytics

[Centralizing Data and Drawing Insight for A1 Educational Consulting](https://github.com/sampds/consulting-mssql-server-database-development-descriptive-analytics)

[<img src="images/a1_thumbnail.png?raw=true">](/pdf/Deery-Schmitt_Samuel_Developing_a_Database_to_Support_A1_College_Prep_Sales_Marketing_and_Administration.pdf)

**Objective**
To create a centralized database for managing information about students, parents, and their interactions with the organization.
Use the database to analyze performance, create visualizations and reports to support sales and marketing, and ease administrative burden.

**Challenge**
The existing system was fragmented, making it challenging to access comprehensive information for marketing strategies or student support.

---
### Data Visualization and Descriptive Analytics

[Nielsen Movie Viewership Analytics for RSG Media](https://github.com/sampds/network-television-movie-trend-analysis)

[<img src="images/nielsen_thumbnail.jpg?raw=true">](/pdf/Deery-Schmitt_Samuel_Nielsen_Report.pdf)

**Objective**
To analyze and report on Nielsen data, focusing on viewer demographics and behaviors.

**Challenge**
The dataset is enormous, with hundreds of thousands of records and dozens of variables, and the domain was unfamiliar.

---
### Data Engineering and Modeling

[DMAIC Process Improvement for Hombuilding Firm](/pdf/Deery-Schmitt_Samuel_DMAIC_Process_Improvement_Project.pdf)

[<img src="images/DMAIC_thumbnail.jpg?raw=true">](/pdf/Deery-Schmitt_Samuel_DMAIC_Process_Improvement_Project.pdf)

**Objective**
To identify and reduce supply chain inefficiencies in a real estate & home building firm.

**Challenge**
Matching 7 quarters of vendor and client records.

---
## Academic Projects
**Coursework focused on applying classroom techniques and improving skills**

### Fuzzy Matching Records and Modeling

[College Football Coaches Salary Recommendations](https://github.com/sampds/fuzzy-matching-college-football)

[<img src="images/college_football_thumbnail.png?raw=true">](/pdf/Deery-Schmitt_Samuel_College_Football_Coach_Salary_Recommendations.pdf)

**Objective**
To execute a comprehensive data analysis process, starting from data collection to predicting salaries.

**Challenge**
Matching records from 6 different sources, and choosing best variables for modeling.

### Data Exploration and Modeling

[Understanding Cryptocurrency Volatility](https://github.com/sampds/understanding-cryptocurrency-volatility)

[<img src="images/cryptocurrency_thumbnail.png?raw=true">](/pdf/Deery-Schmitt_Samuel_Understanding_Cryptocurrency_Volatility.pdf)

**Objective**
To understand factors affecting cryptocurrency prices, explore correlations between different cryptocurrencies, and develop predictive models for price movements.

**Challenge**
Transforming data for use in support vector machines.

Commit message:

added files for another project, data warehouse

index.md, after:

# Portfolio

## Business Consulting Projects
**Coursework completed to answer business questions and build technical solutions for companies**

---
### Database Development and Descriptive Analytics

[Centralizing Data and Drawing Insight for A1 Educational Consulting](https://github.com/sampds/consulting-mssql-server-database-development-descriptive-analytics)

[<img src="images/a1_thumbnail.png?raw=true">](/pdf/Deery-Schmitt_Samuel_Developing_a_Database_to_Support_A1_College_Prep_Sales_Marketing_and_Administration.pdf)

**Objective**
To create a centralized database for managing information about students, parents, and their interactions with the organization.
Use the database to analyze performance, create visualizations and reports to support sales and marketing, and ease administrative burden.

**Challenge**
The existing system was fragmented, making it challenging to access comprehensive information for marketing strategies or student support.

---
### Data Visualization and Descriptive Analytics

[Nielsen Movie Viewership Analytics for RSG Media](https://github.com/sampds/network-television-movie-trend-analysis)

[<img src="images/nielsen_thumbnail.jpg?raw=true">](/pdf/Deery-Schmitt_Samuel_Nielsen_Report.pdf)

**Objective**
To analyze and report on Nielsen data, focusing on viewer demographics and behaviors.

**Challenge**
The dataset is enormous, with hundreds of thousands of records and dozens of variables, and the domain was unfamiliar.

---
### Data Engineering and Modeling

[DMAIC Process Improvement for Hombuilding Firm](/pdf/Deery-Schmitt_Samuel_DMAIC_Process_Improvement_Project.pdf)

[<img src="images/DMAIC_thumbnail.jpg?raw=true">](/pdf/Deery-Schmitt_Samuel_DMAIC_Process_Improvement_Project.pdf)

**Objective**
To identify and reduce supply chain inefficiencies in a real estate & home building firm.

**Challenge**
Matching 7 quarters of vendor and client records.

---
## Academic Projects
**Coursework focused on applying classroom techniques and improving skills**

### Fuzzy Matching Records and Modeling

[College Football Coaches Salary Recommendations](https://github.com/sampds/fuzzy-matching-college-football)

[<img src="images/college_football_thumbnail.png?raw=true">](/pdf/Deery-Schmitt_Samuel_College_Football_Coach_Salary_Recommendations.pdf)

**Objective**
To execute a comprehensive data analysis process, starting from data collection to predicting salaries.

**Challenge**
Matching records from 6 different sources, and choosing best variables for modeling.

### Data Warehouse and Business Intelligence

[End-to-End Data Warehouse](https://github.com/sampds/end-to-end-data-warehouse)

[<img src="images/data-warehouse-dashboard-thumbnail.gif?raw=true">](/pdf/Deery-Schmitt_Samuel_End_to_End_Data_Warehouse.pdf)

**Objective**
Comprehensive group effort to develop a data warehouse by merging two fictional companies' legacy systems to create a single source to draw insight from.

**Challenge**
Data validation and transformation; designing ETL pipeline.

### Data Exploration and Modeling

[Understanding Cryptocurrency Volatility](https://github.com/sampds/understanding-cryptocurrency-volatility)

[<img src="images/cryptocurrency_thumbnail.png?raw=true">](/pdf/Deery-Schmitt_Samuel_Understanding_Cryptocurrency_Volatility.pdf)

**Objective**
To understand factors affecting cryptocurrency prices, explore correlations between different cryptocurrencies, and develop predictive models for price movements.

**Challenge**
Feature engineering variables for use in support vector machines.
